# Project Overview

## Environmental Data Processing

I have gotten some disease data for the seascape samples (which also counts as my environment of origin data for the experimental broodstock groups), and have both Dermo & MSX data, as well as pea crab data, for the York River for the duration of the experiment. Unfortunately, I only have Dermo and pea crab, not MSX, data for Lewisetta. I have consequently processed all the data besides MSX and created a scaled/standardized dataframe containing the environmental quantiles and disease data. This data was combined into one df and then scaled all together, rather than scaling data for the experimental sites, experimental broodstock groups, and seascape environments separately.  

This scaled df was then split into one containing the seascape origin data, the experimental origin data, and then the Lew/York data was added to the experimental origin data to create two dataframes - one for training, and one for predictions. These pop level dataframes were then expanded to individual level data.

Importantly, I have excluded DEBY, LOLA, and LARMIX/SEEDMIX from this current data frame since I do not have the same disease data or updated quantiles for these groups. Once I have sourced this data, I will update my scripts for the new data.


## Integrating Seascape Gen Data

I now have access to seascape genomic data that I can use to train my GO models. I have both an LD thinned and unthinned SNP matrix available to me - I plan to use the unthinned dataset. I have processed this new genetic data in order to prep it for use in GO models (both the full and ld thinned datasets), and made geno and lfmm files (as well as rds objects)

I am still using K=2 for all methods. 


## GO predictions

I now have pipelines built for all three GO methods (LEA, GF, and RDA). I need to update these scripts to work with the new disease data. 
