# Project Overview

## GO Predictions

GO predictions have been made for all 6 wild populations to both Lewisetta and the York River. The environmental dataset that I'm using includes salinity and temperature quantiles, Dermo prevalence, and pea crab prevalence. I have no MSX data for Lewisetta (though I do have the York River), so I cannot make predictions using MSX. I also have no Dermo (or pea crab) data for LOLA or DEBY, so I have not yet made predictions for these populations. It's very likely that this data does not exist for LOLA/DEBY, meaning I will only be able to make predictions for these populations using abiotic data.

I have not yet trained GF genotype models or done any structure-corrected models (RDA and GF). The genotype models time out on my computer/ood, and for whatever reason I'm not able to get gradientForest or many other R packages to work when I submit as a batch job (my environment is having issues). 

## GO Comparisons

I have comparisons completed and plotted for the GO predictions I have (LEA, RDA, GFaf) against survival and length. I have also compared these fitness metrics against environmental distance. I still need to integrate the condition index data into these comparisons, and compare the population level rankings of fitness vs GO. 

## TO DO

### Environmental Data:

* Get the most up to date Lewisetta & York River data
  * Willie Coan/Jess email
  * Process downloaded data
* Process Lewisetta MSX data (once available from Ryan)
* Identify any existing disease data for DEBY/LOLA

### Genomic Offsets:

* Gradient forest genotype model
* Updated predictions with most recent Lew/York data, once downloaded/processed
* LOLA/DEBY Predictions?
* Improved visualizations of GO (interpolate GO or env data?)

### Fitness Data: 

* Condition data integration
* Improved visualizations of fitness
  * finalize color palette
  * finalize shapes
  * finalize pops to include

### GO Comparisons: 

* Comparisons with condition index
* Comparisons of GOs built with/without abiotic data
