# Project Overview

I have made significant progress on both genomic offset analysis and experimental fitness data processing since my last notebook. This notebook post will contain updates about current results, analysis pipeline progress, and what still needs to be done.  

## Experimental Analysis

I have preliminary pipelines to calculate survival & length from the entire experimental period and results from these analyses, though there is still more data cleaning, model refinement, and data visualization to do. 

### Survival Analysis

#### Calculating Survival

I calculated survival of oysters across time by population, site, and a combination of the two. Survival was calculated at each time point as:

$$Survival_t = \frac{Alive}{Alive + Dead} * Survival_{t-1}$$

These data are exported into multiple formats, specifically "mortality_bags_052925.csv" (has bags, populations, and sites), "mortality_long_bags_052925.csv" (survival by bag, no population or site data attached), and "mortality_long_popsite_05292025.csv" (mean survival by population and site).

When I found a bag with survival higher than 1, that bag was removed from other analysis. This may bias downstream results, as the bag is entirely removed rather than removed from just that time point - I intend to go back to fix this soon.

#### Modeling Differences in Survival

I used the population level data, rather than the bag level data, to model differential survival, and instead used the pop/site level data (wherein I calculated survival by pooling the number of alive across all bags and the number of dead across all bags, not by taking the average of bags then using those to calculate population level survival).

Consequently, I did not need to include bag as a random factor, and could use regular linear models lm() 


ADD RESULTS

### Length Analysis

#### Calculating Length

I calculated the average length of tagged oysters across time in each bag, as well as by population/site. The sample size for these average lengths declined through time, as not all tagged oysters survived, but all bags started with 40 tagged oysters that we were able to track individually through time. I did not calculate growth of individuals through time by looking at individual changes in length, as oyster size is not always well approximated by length * width due to highly variable shell shapes. 

These data are exported as "len_bags_event_2025-06-03.csv" (has bag, monitoring event, and length), "lengths_long_2025-06-04.csv" (expanded dataset linking individual tags to their respective bags, populations, lengths, widths, and monitoring events), and "len_sites_2025-06-03.csv" (site, pop, length, monitoring event).

I had one individual with an outlier length of 400mm width and 465mm width, which I inspected and concluded was entered as one order of magnitude off. I kept it in analysis with the adjusted values, but may go back and remove it. 

I also removed tagged oysters from analysis that had died or gone missing, but I am not sure if this removed those individuals just at the time points where they were dead/missing or from the entire analysis. I will double check this soon. 

#### Modeling Differences in Survival

ADD ANALYSIS PROCESS

ADD RESULTS

### Modeling Drivers of Differential Performance

#### Survival Differences



#### 

#### Length Differences



#### 




## GO Analysis

### Environmental Data Processing



### Genetic Data Processing



### LEA GO



### GF GO



### RDA GO



# GO-Experiment Comparison

### Methods Comparison


### Comparison to Experiment
